There are quite a few parts to actually creating and
configuring an API in API Gateway.
Each part serves its purpose,
but it can be a little complicated when you're getting started.
Also, because this service is newer,
you may notice that the conventions that were common with
other parts of the SDK are different here,
primarily the variable casing conventions.
Let's get started by opening the create‑api‑gateway.js file.
You'll notice right off the bat the massive chunk of code between lines
12 and 23 where our API is created and configured.
I'll explain it all in just a bit.
Let's go ahead and insert your region in line 4.
Then on line 7, we need to create an api gateway SDK object.
So create a const called apiG.
Then assign to it a new AWS.APIGateway constructor call.
An API in API Gateway is structured liked this.
You have your API.
The API has different resources,
which are organized sort of in a tree structure with parents and children.
Then each resource can have one or many methods.
A method has two main parts to it,
the integration request and the integration response where you
can manipulate the data going either way.
Keep all these pieces in mind because those are what we're
going to be configuring and creating.
So let's look back at our code.
On line 12, we're creating the root REST API.
When that promise is resolved,
we set a global variable with that value so we can
use it easily in other functions, and then get the root resource.
Any time you want to create a resource,
you have to give it a parent resource to branch from.
In this case, we're getting the top‑level resource to branch from.
Then we create a resource called hbfl.
This will be what our demo site responds on.
We have to then create the method and integration on that resource.
We'll also create one more resource, which is actually a proxy resource.
It's basically a catchall for any request beyond hbfl.
It'll be used for things like API calls to our demo project.
Once that proxy resource is created,
we configure a method and integration for it as well.
Now let's get started with some code.
Come down to the createRestApi function and create a
params const object on the first line.
This might be the simplest params object yet with only one property called name.
Give it the value of the apiName function argument.
Now inside the Promise call apiG.createRestApi,
passing in params as the first argument and a callback function
with err and data arguments as the second.
Inside the callback, if there's an err object,
call reject with it; otherwise, call resolve,
passing in the entire data argument.
The next function we'll implement is getRootResource,
which gets the root resource ID from the API we just created.
Create your params const,
and it looks like we've got another extremely simple one here.
This one has one property called restApiId.
The value will be the api.id property from the API function argument.
Now inside the Promise, we'll call the apiG.getResources function,
passing in params as the first argument and a callback function
with err and data arguments as the second.
Inside the callback, if there's an err object, call reject and pass it in.
Now create an else block.
The getResources function returns an array of resources, but we only want one.
Create a new const variable here called rootResource.
Assign to it a call to data.items.find.
This function will let us use criteria to find a
single item in the data.items array.
Pass an arrow function into find that has a single argument called r.
In the function body, return the expression r.path === "/".
This is looking at each resource and finding the one that
has a path with only a single slash.
This is the root resource.
Now call resolve and pass in rootResource.id since we only need the resource ID.
Now that we have that root resource ID,
we can create a new resource off it by implementing
the createResourceId function.
Start by creating the usual params const object.
This one will have a few properties.
The first property will be parentId with the value of the
parentResourceId function argument.
The next property is pathPart,
and you can give it the value of the resourcePath function argument.
This is the path that the resource will be configured to
respond to on the final API URI scheme.
The last property will be restApiId, which you can give the value of api.id.
Now inside the Promise, call apiG.createResource,
passing in the params object as the first argument and a callback
function with err and data arguments as the second.
If there's an err object, call reject with it,
and otherwise call resolve,
and we'll return the ID of the resource by passing in data.id.
We've implemented the functions to create an API,
retrieve a root resource, and create a resource,
but there's still more to do. In the next clip, we're going to create a method and integration for a resource.